# PhDThesisIW
# Analysis of within colony motility and colony structure 

Videos and two-dimensional images in z-stacks of fluorescently labelled gonococcal colonies can be analysed via the provided programs. The methodology of imaging is described in Cronenberg T, Hennes M, Wielert I, Maier B (2021) Antibiotics modulate attractive interactions in bacterial colonies affecting survivability under combined treatment. PLOS Pathogens 17(2): e1009251. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.ppat.1009251. 

In order to analyse the within-colony motility, it is first necessary to track images in the .nd2 format via the Trackmate Fiji PlugIn in ImageJ (pre-processing: use stackreg to ensure that global motility of the colony is excluded, as the focus is on single cell motilities), resulting in an Excel sheet in the .csv format containing the tracks. Subsequently, the excel sheet must be read into the program ColonyMotilityAnalysis.m, along with an image of the analysed video in the .tif format. This program will save the diffusion constants in radial shells from the centre to the edge of the colony in the .mat format. To further process the data and determine the statistics and averages of multiple colonies, it is necessary to read in the .mat files in ProcessedAnalysisMotility.m, which results in the final data of within-colony motility (diffusion constant against distance to edge of colony). 

The structural of the colony is derived from two-dimensional images captured in a z-stack of the colony, expressed in the .nd2 format. The initial step involves the determination of the three-dimensional positions of the bacteria embedded within the colony. This is accomplished through the utilisation of the program SinglecelltrackingZstacks.m, which generates a .mat file containing the positions. Subsequently, the data is extracted and the radial distribution function is computed via the Radialdistribution_localorder.m function.  

